Adding Reduce bundle size guide (#118)
framer/api-docs: pages/motion/guide-reduce-bundle-size.mdx

<!-- 👋 Editing this file? Need help? → https://github.com/framer/api-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md -->

import {
  APIClass,
  APIVariable,
  APIFunction,
  APIMethod,
  APIInterface,
  APIProperty,
  APIMergedInterface,
  Template,
  Link,
  Ref,
  Callout,
  Todo,
} from "../../components"

export default Template("Reduce bundle size")

# Reduce bundle size

<span className="lead">
  Learn what makes up Motion's bundle size, and how to
  reduce it.
</span>

As of version 2.2, the full bundle size for Framer Motion is **28kb**. Thanks to code-splitting, it's likely that this **isn't** the actual weight you'll be adding to your bundle size.

> For example, if import only `AnimatePresence` and `usePresence` to implement your own exit animations with CSS, you'd only add **1.4kb** to your bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you are only importing `AnimatePresence` and `usePresence` to implement your own exit animations with CSS, you'd only add **1.4kb** to your bundle.
```

```jsx
import { AnimatePresence, usePresence } from "framer-motion" // 1.4kb
```

However, the main import is the `motion` component and, by default, when you use it you add **24kb** to your bundle.

```jsx
import { motion } from "framer-motion" // 24kb
```

> Framer Motion's simple, props-driven API is the reason for this extra size. Unused features aren't code-split, as it isn't currently possible at build time to detect which features you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Framer Motion's simple, props-driven API is the reason for this extra size. Unused features aren't code-split, as it isn't currently possible to detect which features you're using at build time.
```

> However, Motion offers APIs that allow you to create loading strategies so you only ever import what you need. In 2.2 this can enable you to reduce the `motion` import size down to **19kb**, but future versions will be able to reduce this even further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Motion offers APIs that allow you to create loading strategies so that you only ever import what you need. In 2.2 this can enable you to reduce the `motion` import size down to **19kb**, but future versions will be able to reduce this even further.
```

## How to reduce bundle size

Instead of importing `motion`, import the slim `m` component. You can do this without changing your code by importing it as `motion`.

```jsx
import { m as motion } from "framer-motion"
```

> By default, `m` has no knowledge of features like exit animations or drag. They can be loaded manually via the `MotionConfig` component. This will provide **only the features you use** to `m` components via React context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `m` has no knowledge of features like exit animations or drag. They can be loaded manually via the `MotionConfig` component. This lets you define **only the features you use**, and provide them to `m` components via React context, ensuring unused features are not bundled into your code.
```

Reviewer: Probably can improve this, but I thought the last sentence was missing

      {children}
    </MotionConfig>
  )
}
```

## Available features

The features you can import from `framer-motion` are:

- `AnimationFeature`: For `animate` prop support. This includes variants and animation controls.
- `ExitFeature`: For `exit` prop support.
- `DragFeature`: For `drag` prop support.
- `GesturesFeature`: For all gesture callbacks including `whileHover` and `whileTap`.
- `AnimateLayoutFeature`: For `layout` and `layoutId` prop support.

## Dynamic feature loading (experimental)

By using `m` and `MotionConfig` you can reduce bundle size by only importing the features you need. But these features are being added to your initial bundle size, even if you don't need their functionality straight away.

Motion supports the progressive enhancement of `m` components by adding new items to the `features` prop even after it's mounted.

When and how you add new features is up to you.

One way you can implement this is with the dynamic `import` function and a bundler that supports it (like Webpack).

Make a file with an array of features as its default export.

```jsx
// inc/dynamic-features.js
import { AnimationFeature } from "framer-motion"

> export default [AnimationFeature]

Reviewer: I think `AnimationFeature` might be a bad example since it almost sounds like a dummy feature. Maybe `DragFeature` would be more explicit?

```

Then, in your component, you can use `import()`, `useState` and `useEffect` to import this file after the component has made an initial render.

```jsx
function App() {
  const [features, setFeatures] = useState([])

  useEffect(() => {
    import("./inc/dynamic-features").then(res => {
      setFeatures(res.default)
    })
  }, [])

  return (
    <MotionConfig features={features}>
      <Component />
    </MotionConfig>
  )
}
```

In this example, we're only importing the `AnimationFeature`. Any `m` components that should perform an animation when they mount will do so when `AnimationFeature` loads.

```jsx
import { m as motion } from "framer-motion"

export function Component() {
  return (

>     <motion

Reviewer: Is this a thing? Does this render a div? Should it be motion.div?
